.\"
.\" "$Id: htmldoc.man,v 1.6 2000/06/05 17:55:43 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   Manual page for HTMLDOC, a HTML document processing program.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-1999 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   HTMLDOC is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"   which is described in the file "COPYING.txt".
.\"
.TH htmldoc 1 "HTMLDOC 1.8.8" "5 June 2000" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
htmldoc \- convert html source files into html, postscript, or pdf.
.sp
.SH SYNOPSIS
htmldoc [options] filename1.html [ ... filenameN.html ]
.LP
htmldoc [options] -
.LP
htmldoc [filename.book]
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
[ -d
.I directory
] [ -f
.I filename
] [ -t
.I format
] [ -v ] [ --bodycolor
.I color
] [ --bodyfont
.I typeface
] [ --bodyimage
.I filename
] [ --book ] [ --bottom
.I margin
] [ --charset
.I {8859-1...8859-15}
] [ --color ] [ --duplex ] [ --effectduration
.I { 0.1..10.0 }
] [ --encryption ] [ --fontsize
.I size
] [ --fontspacing
.I spacing
] [ --footer
.I fff
] [ --format
.I format
] [ --gray ] [ --header
.I fff
] [ --headfootfont
.I font
] [ --headfootsize
.I size
] [ --headingfont
.I typeface
] [ --help ] [ --jpeg
.I [=quality]
] [ --left
.I margin
] [--linkcolor
.I color
] [--linkstyle
.I {plain,underline}
] [ --logoimage
.I filename
] [ --no-compression ] [ --no-duplex ] [ --no-encryption ] [ --no-numbered ]
[ --no-pscommands ] [ --no-title ] [ --no-toc ] [ --numbered ] [ --outdir
.I directory
] [ --outfile
.I filename
] [ --owner-password
.I password
] [ --pageduration
.I {1.0..60.0}
] [ --pageeffect
.I {none,bi,bo,d,gd,gdr,gr,hb,hsi,hso,vb,vsi,vso,wd,wl,wr,wu}
] [ --pagelayout
.I {single,one,twoleft,tworight}
] [ --pagemode
.I {document,outlines,fullscreen}
] [ --permissions
.I permission
] [ --pscommands ] [ --right
.I margin
] [ --size
.I pagesize
] [ --textcolor
.I color
] [ --textfont
.I {courier,times,helvetica}
] [ --title ] [ --titlefile
.I filename
] [ --titleimage
.I filename
] [ --tocfooter
.I fff
] [ --tocheader
.I fff
] [ --toclevels
.I levels
] [ --toctitle
.I string
] [ --top
.I margin
] [ --user-password
.I password
] [ --verbose ] [ --webpage ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIHTMLDOC\fR converts HTML source files into indexed HTML, PostScript, or
Portable Document Format (PDF) files that can be viewed online or printed.
With no options a PDF document is produced on stdout.
.LP
The second form of \fIHTMLDOC\fR reads HTML source from stdin, which allows
you to use \fIHTMLDOC\fR as a filter.
.LP
The third form of \fIHTMLDOC\fR launches a graphical interface that allows you
to change options and generate documents interactively.
.SH SEE ALSO
HTMLDOC 1.8.8 Software Users Manual
.LP
http://www.easysw.com/htmldoc
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Sweet (mike@easysw.com), Easy Software Products
.SH TRADEMARKS
PostScript is a trademark that may be registered in some countries and Adobe is
a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH COPYRIGHTS
Portable Document Format Copyright 1993-1999 by Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.LP
HTMLDOC is copyright 1997-2000 by Easy Software. This program is free
software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.SH NO WARRANTY
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: htmldoc.man,v 1.6 2000/06/05 17:55:43 mike Exp $".
.\"
