.\"
.\" "$Id: htmldoc.1,v 1.1 1999/11/07 13:33:52 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   Manual page for HTMLDOC, a HTML document processing program.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-1998 by Michael Sweet.
.\"
.\"   HTMLDOC is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"   which is described in the file "COPYING-2.0".
.\"
.TH htmldoc 1 "HTMLDOC 1.7" "4 January 1999" "Michael Sweet"
.SH NAME
htmldoc \- convert html source files into html, postscript, or pdf.
.sp
.SH SYNOPSIS
htmldoc [options] filename1.html [ ... filenameN.html ]
.LP
htmldoc [options] -
.LP
htmldoc [filename.book]
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
--barcolor color
--bodycolor color
--bodyfont {courier,times,helvetica}
--bodyimage filename.{gif,png,jpg}
--bottom margin{in,cm,mm}
--color
--duplex
--fontsize {6.0..24.0}
--fontspacing {1.0..3.0}
--footer fff
{--format, -t} {ps1,ps2,pdf,html}
--gray
--header fff
--headfootfont {courier,times,helvetica}
--headfootsize {6.0..24.0}
--headingfont {courier,times,helvetica}
--help
--jpeg[=quality]
--left margin{in,cm,mm}
--logo filename.{gif,jpg,png}
--no-compression
--no-title
--no-toc
--numbered
{--outdir, -d} dirname
{--outfile, -f} filename.{ps,pdf,html}
--right margin{in,cm,mm}
--size {letter,a4,universal,WxH{in,cm,mm},etc}
--title filename.{gif,jpg,png}
--tocfooter fff
--tocheader fff
--toclevels levels
--top margin{in,cm,mm}
{--verbose, -v}
--webpage
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIHTMLDOC\fR converts HTML source files into indexed HTML, PostScript, or
Portable Document Format (PDF) files that can be viewed online or printed.
With no options an indexed HTML document is produced on stdout.
.LP
The second form of \fIHTMLDOC\fR reads HTML source from stdin, which allows
you to use \fIHTMLDOC\fR as a filter.
.LP
The third form of \fIHTMLDOC\fR launches a graphical interface that allows you
to change options and generate documents interactively.
.SH SEE ALSO
HTMLDOC 1.7 User's Guide
.LP
HTMLDOC WWW page, http://www.easysw.com/~mike/htmldoc
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Sweet (mike@easysw.com), Easy Software Products
.SH TRADEMARKS
PostScript is a trademark that may be registered in some countries and Adobe is
a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH COPYRIGHTS
Portable Document Format Copyright 1993, 1996 by Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.LP
HTMLDOC Copyright 1997-1999 by Michael Sweet. This program is free
software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.SH NO WARRANTY
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: htmldoc.1,v 1.1 1999/11/07 13:33:52 mike Exp $".
.\"
